# MTKClient

A fork of MTKClient for the MT8113 chipset. It provides commands for dumping and flashing the preloader, U-Boot, and Linux, with the goal of helping make progress toward loading an unsigned kernel on modern Kobo e-readers. Before proceeding with this README, I recommend reading the documentation made by enthdegree [here](https://github.com/enthdegree/mt8113) to gain more context.

> [!CAUTION]
> This repository may brick your Kobo. Use at your own risk.

> [!WARNING]
> Be aware that some of the code in my commits was generated by AI and has not been fully reviewed (this does not apply to the README).

## Installation

```shell
uv venv
uv sync
```

Download the [stage2 payload](https://github.com/ratiz-glitch/old-mtkclient/blob/main/mtkclient/payloads/stage2.bin).

## Usage

Activate your Python virtual environment with `source .venv/bin/activate`.

Connect your Kobo to your computer with USB and run the following command.

```shell
./mtk.py stage --stage2 path/to/stage2.bin
```

> [!TIP]
> The path should be the one to the stage2 payload you downloaded earlier.

Hold the Download pad shorted while briefly shorting the Reset pad. You should see the command report that stage2 was successfully loaded.

Before writing to any region, create a backup of it with `./flash.sh save <region>` where `<region>` is one of `preloader`, `uboot`, or `linux`.

Write an image with `./flash.sh write <region> <file>`

You can later restore the original contents with `./flash.sh restore <region>`

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The `START` and `LENGTH` values in the `flash.sh` file correspond to the partition layout of the n367 model. If you have a different model, you might need to change these values.

> [!NOTE]
> If you need to read or write to others regions of the eMMC, you can directly use the `./stage2` command. The script `flash.sh` is just a wrapper around some of its commands.

## Manually boot an unsigned kernel

Depending on the firmware/software version reported by Kobo (More > Settings > Device information > Sotware version), U-Boot will react differently to an unsigned FIT image.

If the version is 4.45.23697, the device is automatically rolled back to an older firmware version (4.39.22468 in my case), and if I remember correctly all user data is lost.

If the version is 4.39.22468, U-Boot will complain that it failed to verify the signature and drops to a shell accessible via UART. It is possible to bypass the signature check by setting the environment variable `verify` to `no` with `setenv verify no`. Then, the unsigned kernel can be booted with the command `boot`. Unfortunately, environment variables are embedded in the U-Boot binary, so this change cannot be made permanent without patching the binary itself. Moreover LK also verifies the signature of the FIT image containing U-Boot.
